[instrumental music]
(male narrator)
Long, long ago,
deep in a forest
there was a hidden village
where tiny creatures lived.
They called themselves Smurfs.
They were good.
[theme music]
Then there was Gargamel,
the evil wizard.
He was bad.
Oh, I hate Smurfs!
I'll get you,
I'll get all of you
if it's the last thing
I ever do!
[laughing]
Ooh! Oh, I'll get you!
I'll find your village someday.
You'll be sorry.
(male narrator)
Well, the forest
is still there.
And if you listen,
you may hear Gargamel's rage.
And if you are good,
you may just catch a glimpse
of the Smurfs.
[instrumental music]
[intense music]
[laughter]
Happiness. I can feel it.
There's happiness in my forest,
and I hate it!
Cut out that happiness!
That's an order from me,
Gargamel!
[screaming]
You can feel it, too,
can't you, Azrael?
All that dreadful cheer.
Azrael?
[groaning]
(Gargamel)
'I must capture those Smurfs'
and put an end
to all that happiness.
Don't just sit there.
Think of a plan! Think!
- Ah.. Ah! Ah!
- 'Think! Think!'
thud
I must find their weakness.
Let's see.
(Gargamel)
'Color, blue.'
- 'Three apples high.'
- 'Ah.'
- 'Big hearts.'
- 'Yeah.'
Big hearts! That's it!
I'll get them
through their hearts.
I will send them a Smurfette!
[gibberish]
[smoke hissing]
Ah!
The Smurfette
will be their downfall!
[laughing]
This magical lump of blue clay
will become
the first female Smurf.
'A beautiful, but evil Smurf'
to lead all the others
straight to me!
[bubbling]
Let's see..
A dash of sugar and spice
'but nothing nice.'
A dram of crocodile tears.
(Azrael)
'Oh..'
[bubbling]
(Gargamel)
'Half a pack of lies.'
(Azrael)
'Ah..'
- 'The chatter of a Magpie.'
- Ah..
And the hardest stone
for her heart!
'Yeah.'
plop
[dramatic music]
zap zap zap
[Azrael squealing]
- It worked! It worked!
- Ah!
I have created a Smurfette!
[instrumental music]
Halt!
- Ooh!
- Ow!
Okay, Smurfs,
we need plenty of smurf-berries.
So everybody pick a direction
and go smurf them.
[clamoring]
Wait a minute!
[screeching]
- Yeah?
- I meant..
Everybody pick
a different direction.
- 'Oh!'
- 'Ah!'
Okay, I'll just follow
my mirror.
- I'll smurf this way.
- I hate picking directions.
Why don't you go that way,
Grouchy?
Uh, okay. But I hate that way.
Boy, oh, boy!
I-I'll just sneak up
on those old smurf-berries
when they're not looking
and lasso them!
whirr whirr
Clumsy!
Oops. Oh, sorry, Brainy.
[Smurfette sobbing]
Oh, boo-hoo.
Oh, boo-hoo-hoo.
It's awful! I've never been
so miserable in my whole life.
I'm all alone. Ooh.
Lost in this scary forest
full of frightening noises.
- Ooh..
- Hey!
[gasps]
Oh, you startled me.
Who are you?
I'm a Smurf! Who are you?
I'm a Smurfette.
- A Smurfette?
- You know what that is?
- No.
- Do you like what you see?
- I don't know.
- You will.
- Where's your village?
- This way.
Wait!
Aren't you going to carry me?
I'm weak and helpless.
Oh, okay!
Boy! You really know how
to sweep a girl off her feet!
Papa Smurf! Papa Smurf!
Look what Hefty found
in the woods, Papa Smurf!
(Brainy)
'A-a Smurfette!'
Oh, Papa Smurf
I suffered all night
in the hideous forest.
Lost and alone.
Oh, boo-hoo-hoo! Boo-hoo!
There, there, my dear.
You're among friends now.
You can stay right here in our
village for as long as you like.
Oh, boy!
Smurfette's going to stay!
[cheering]
We're in for a treat!
You're in for a surprise.
[instrumental music]
[humming]
Calling old wizard.
Gargamel, can you hear me?
beep beep
It's about time. Where are you?
- I'm in the smurf village and--
- 'Excellent!'
(Gargamel)
Now get out there and capture
their little blue hearts.
And don't fail.
Remember,
I made you and I can break you.
[Gargamel laughing]
Uh, I, I-I guess
I'd better get started.
[humming]
crash
Yoo-hoo! Here I am!
Hi there, Smurf. New in town?
[groans]
This is gonna be even easier
than I thought.
[hammering]
Yoo-hoo!
Ouch! Ouch! Ooh!
Oops. Oh, sorry, Brainy.
I-I'm sorry.
Not half as sorry
as you're going to be.
And you can blame it on her.
Oh, now look what you've done!
Maybe I better try
a more subtle approach.
Perhaps, a picnic!
Like, uh, thanks for helping me
with this firewood, Hefty.
Oh, no problem, Harmony.
After all, what are Smurfs for?
[laughing]
How wonderful
that my little Smurfs
get on so well together.
Here, Harmony. Smurfette
invited me to a picnic.
- But I can't go.
- But she already invited me.
And I'm busy, too.
Here, Vanity, you go.
No, no, uh, I'm busy, too.
- You take it, Grouchy.
- I hate picnics.
I can't go either.
Not me.
I've got something cooking.
- Well, I certainly can't go.
- Well, don't look at me.
- 'Or me.'
- Me neither.
[indistinct chatter]
And I have important work
in my lab.
Gee, I wonder
why they aren't coming.
[Jokey laughing]
Hi.
Hi, Smurfette.
I brought you a present.
A present? For me?
Oh, how sweet.
I knew
they all couldn't resist me.
boom
Surprise, surprise!
[laughing]
This isn't working out
quite like I planned.
Hm, but if I can't
lure them out
maybe I can flap them out.
Yoo-hoo, Greedy Smurf.
Oh, hi, Smurfette.
I, I baked you a cake.
[slurps]
Well, that's different.
But first
show me how that works.
Hey, no!
You could flood everything!
Oh, just one
little teeny-weeny pull.
What could happen?
We'd, we'd have a creek
without a village.
Hm, guess I'll just
have to ask a Smurf
who appreciates a good cake.
No. Don't go!
I'll-I'll show you how it works.
[creaking]
[water gushing]
[dramatic music]
Oh! How pretty!
Yeah. Well, I better
close the valves now.
No, wait. Not yet.
Ah! Smurfette, let go!
[intense music]
[water gushing]
Where's all this water from?
The dam must have broken!
Let's get out of here!
[grunting]
Hey, you!
You're doing this on purpose!
Yes, and you sure
aren't helping any!
[valve creaking]
[Smurfette screaming]
Smurfette!
[water gushing]
(Smurfette)
Help! Help!
Well, watch you step.
We must reach the dam
before it's too late.
Papa, look!
Help! Help!
- Smurfette!
- 'Help! Help!'
- Grab my hand!
- Help!
Okay, Hefty. Pull us out.
- Argh!
- 'Help!'
[hammering]
[coughing]
You, you all saved my life.
Yes. But why did you open
the dam?
Open the dam? Who? Me?
B-but I'd never.
[clamoring]
Order! Order!
Quiet in the court!
And so, Smurfette,
in view of the evidence
and what Greedy has told us,
do you have any defense
'for trying
to flood the village?'
Well, uh, um, uh
I-I just wanna say that..
(Smurfette)
'W-w-what I mean is that, uh..'
Oh, boo..
I'm taking orders from Gargamel!
(all)
Gargamel?
Let me at her! Let me at her!
She can't smurf us
and get away with it.
[sobbing]
Oh, I'm so ashamed.
I almost led you all
into Gargamel's clutches.
And you've been so nice to me.
[sobbing]
Oh, well, don't cry, Smurfette.
I mean, my, my smurf
is worse than my bite.
I mean, I..
Whatever you do to me,
I deserve.
Throw me out of the village,
abandon me in the forest or..
[sobbing]
...send me back to Gargamel.
I have never smurfed
anything so sad in all my life.
[all sobbing]
[sniffles]
I hate sad!
[sobbing]
There, there, Smurfette.
Gargamel created you
to smurf us.
It's not your fault.
[sniffles]
It's not?
[sobbing]
(Smurfette)
'That's so nice of you,
Papa Smurf.'
'I wish I could be a real Smurf
like all of you.'
(all)
A real Smurf?
- Impossible!
- Not in a million smurfs.
Unthinkable.
No one's ever become
a Smurf before.
You really want to be a Smurf?
Oh, more than anything.
It can't be done.
Smurfs are Smurfs, not made.
Can you really make me a Smurf?
Well, I may not be able to undo
all of Gargamel's spell
but I can try.
[indistinct chatter]
[door shuts]
Uh, th-that's right.
Papa Smurf can smurf anything
he smurfs his mind to.
You just watch.
You take my word for it.
You listen to me, you know
I know what I'm talking about.
Hey, where did everybody go?
"One touch of Venus.
[instrumental music]
Add moonbeams for light."
[music continues]
Essence of smurf root
to smurf her up right.
And now with the power of all,
I command
Smurfette become Smurf
and before me stand!
[zapping]
Hello, Smurfs. Heh-heh.
I will now introduce
the new and improved Smurfette!
[indistinct chatter]
Hello, boys.
(all)
Hello, Smurfette!
Huh? Where'd they all go?
(all)
Welcome back!
Now, that's more like it!
Smurfs for the Smurfette.
- Hey, I smurfed her first.
- No, I did.
Smurfette, here's a surprise!
No, don't! It'll kablooey
right in your face.
Did you ever see
a cream-layered cake
with a cherry on top
kablooey in your face?
Well, um, um,
anybody can make a mistake.
boing
That's Jokey's problem.
No sense of humor.
[instrumental music]
splat
I'll get you for that.
[clamoring]
Well, what do you suppose
got into them?
Um, uh, maybe you'd better smurf
back to your house, my dear
and, uh, freshen up.
[clamoring]
Oh, dear!
I know I finally look like
a Smurfette, Papa Smurf
but I sure don't feel like one.
[chuckles]
I'm afraid you'll have to manage
that part on your own.
I will? But how?
You'll smurf what to do
when the time comes, Smurfette.
Bye-bye.
[instrumental music]
[humming]
zap zap
Smurfette,
what's happened to you?
You've changed.
I sense
Papa Smurf's hand in this.
Meow.
Gargamel, you nasty old wizard.
I don't know
what you want now, but--
My dear, my dear.
I want only
to grant your fondest wish.
You mean, to be a real Smurf?
No, I mean your wish to pay back
those miserable little creatures
for their bothersome meddling.
[screaming]
- What?
- 'I-I mean..'
Uh, uh, don't you want
to pay the Smurfs back
for their, uh, kindness?
Oh, yes.
They've been so nice to me.
I should do something nice
for them.
Exactly, my child.
And I suggest a-a party.
A-a surprise party.
[chuckling]
And you can fix that for me,
Gargamel?
(Gargamel)
'It would be my pleasure.'
Just get all the Smurfs
to the big oak tree
by this afternoon,
I'll take care of the rest.
[laughing]
[instrumental music]
Yoo-hoo! Yoo-hoo!
(all)
You called?
What's smurfing?
Ahem, I want you all to know
that I planned
a nice surprise for you.
- 'Yay!
- 'Oh, boy! Oh, boy!'
And it's waiting
at the big oak in the forest.
[cheering]
- 'A surprise?'
- I hate surprises.
[indistinct chatter]
Aren't you smurfing with us,
Smurfette?
As soon as I pick out
just the right dress
for the surprise, Papa Smurf.
[instrumental music]
This way, Smurfs. The big oak
is just over the hill.
No, this one's too long.
I wore that this morning.
Oh, this one's too plain.
I'll save that for the night.
Uh, this one? Nah!
That one? Nah!
[dramatic music]
Ah, I'll teach those Smurfs
to be happy in my forest.
This visit to the big oak
will be their last.
[indistinct chatter]
They're coming. Azrael..
Bring me that camouflage.
[Azrael grunting]
[dramatic music]
[indistinct chatter]
Don't you stand there
like a ninny. Hide.
[yelps]
[indistinct chatter]
snap
- Hey.
- Who smurfed out the lights?
- Who's standing on my foot?
- Uh, where's our surprise?
Here is your surprise,
my little blue captives.
(all)
Gargamel! Oh, no!
We've been smurfed
by the Smurfette.
- I told you, I told you!
- I hate the Smurfette.
[indistinct chatter]
(Papa Smurf)
'Quiet down! Quiet down!
We've got to think.'
[chuckles]
Don't waste your time
you little blue busybodies.
Yeah.
Now, what shall I do with you?
[humming]
Tonight, tonight, Azrael,
we shall feast.
Yeah. Mm..
Yes, we'll cook them in honey
and eat them as snacks.
[slurps]
(Gargamel)
'No, no, no.'
- 'No, that won't do.'
- No?
No. Uh, we'll have Smurfs
on a stick.
[slurping]
Uh, no, no, no, no. Ah, perfect!
We'll dine on soup a la smurf.
Yeah.
Oh, I must do something.
But I'm not even
a real Smurf yet.
You'll smurf what to do
when the time comes, Smurfette.
Brilliant, Gargamel! Brilliant!
[chuckles]
Who else could capture
every single Smurf
with just one measly Smurfette?
'Nah-nah, nah-nah, nah-nah.'
You didn't get all of us,
Gargamel.
(Papa Smurf)
'The smurf's on you, Gargamel.
You missed the Lone Smurf.'
- Azrael!
- Huh?
- You let one escape!
Get him, get him!
I must have them all!
[dramatic music]
That's using your heads.
Don't just do something,
stand there.
- Huh?
- Follow that Smurf!
[snarling]
Going up.
[yelps]
You, you idiot, Azrael.
After him.
[grunts]
All the Smurfs
that's gonna smurf.
Let's hear it
for the Lone Smurf.
[Smurfs cheering]
Who is the Lone Smurf anyway?
(Gargamel)
Where are you,
you miserable wretch?
Faster, Azrael. That Smurf
can't climb much farther.
He's almost out of tree!
boing
When I give the word,
we'll pounce!
[chuckling]
Now!
[Gargamel and Azrael groaning]
Bye-bye, Gargamel!
Looks like
this time the smurf's on you.
[laughing]
whoosh
[groans]
[cheering]
- Gee, thanks, Lone Smurf.
- Boy, you sure showed Gargamel.
But who is Lone Smurf?
(Smurfs)
'Ah, Smurfette!'
Yes, it's me.
And I feel just like a Smurf.
(Smurfs)
'Hurray!'
The Smurfette
is a real Smurf at last.
You see,
there's nothing you can't be
if you only smurf hard enough.
Now, we've really got
something to celebrate.
But first we've got to smurf
Gargamel the way he smurfed us.
Now, here's what..
[instrumental music]
[bat screeching]
This is all your fault, Azrael.
You and those blasted Smurfs!
[screaming]
knock knock
(Gargamel)
'Come in.'
Oh, boo-hoo!
I'm so lost and alone.
Boo-hoo! Won't somebody help me?
Oh, no! We've been smurfed!
[snarling]
I'll get you Smurfs for this.
Wait, you're supposed to pay me
and take care of me.
Stop, stop!
My revenge will be terrible!
You'll see! You'll see!
♪ La la-la-la-la ♪
♪ La-la la-la-la ♪♪
Smurfette, we love you.
I hate..
I-I..
I love the Smurfette, too.
But I hate anybody
to know about it.
[music continues]
[theme music]
[instrumental music]